---
layout: default
title: Data Catalogues
# permalink: /
---

---


The PAN-NZ data catalogues provide an inventory of known datasets that describe
protected areas across Aotearoa New Zealand. These catalogues serve two key
purposes: 
* **Visibility:** Help users identify existing protected area datasets. This
  supports not only the compilation of the PAN-NZ national spatial layer, but
  also helps others discover and access protected area data sources more easily. 
* **Data Improvement:** The catalogues form the foundation for strengthening the
  national dataset by highlighting known sources, identifying gaps or
  inconsistencies, and showing where further engagement with data holders may be
  needed. 

By making this information transparent, we aim to support collaboration, reduce
duplication of effort, and guide efforts to ensure all protected areas are
fairly and accurately represented in PAN-NZ. Each catalogue entry includes
metadata such as the dataset custodian, licensing terms, access method (e.g.
download or API), and any steps required to make the dataset suitable for inclusion
in PAN-NZ. 

The catalogues are grouped into two categories: 

1. **[National Datasets]({{ site.baseurl
   }}/national_datasets_catalogue/index.html):** Protected area datasets that
   cover all of New Zealand.
2. **[Regional Datasets]({{ site.baseurl
}}/regional_datasets_catalogue/index.html):**  Datasets managed at a regional
level, typically by local government. These include data describing locally
administered reserves and regional parks. 
 

Please see each of the relevant data catalogue pages for more details. 

<br>

# Contributing 
---
We encourage you to explore each catalogue. If you notice datasets that are
missing or entries that could be improved, please see the [Contribute /
Contact]({{ site.baseurl }}/contributing/index.html) page for details on how to
provide feedback or submit updates. 

If your organisation holds a protected area dataset that is not yet fully
complete or does not meet all PAN-NZ guidelines, we still encourage you to share
it. Partial or developing datasets are valuable, and can help inform future
engagement, fill visibility gaps, and contribute to building a more
representative national layer. 

Your input plays a vital role in improving the coverage, quality, and
accessibility of protected areas data across Aotearoa. 

 